ARMONK, NY and Bangalore, India,-  25 Jan 2016: IBM (NYSE: IBM) today announced that Chumbak, India’s leading retailer of lifestyle products, has selected IBM Cloud to ensure seamless operation of business processes to fast-track it’s growth. IBM will enable Chumbak to significantly improve management efficiency of critical data across multiple locations. As part of the agreement, Chumbak will host and run their enterprise resource planning (ERP) applications on IBM Cloud. Chumbak is a leading retail company with wide range of products across an assortment of apparel, home and accessories. The company runs over 40 stores across India and also has large format flagship stores in six cities. Chumbak plans to increase their large format store count across the country and is also poised for strong growth in its online business. Given the rapid scale of expansion, Chumbak needed an IT infrastructure that could scale up adequately, and propel the critical applications necessary for such growth. Among the decision factors used to evaluate the options, one of the main requirements was seamless integration with the ERP being deployed. Cost effectiveness and performance efficiency rounded off the top three considerations posted by the business requirements.“Over the last five years, Chumbak has grown over 300 percent year on year. As we plan to scale our presence both online and offline, we wanted a technology partner who could support us over the next phase of our hyper growth,” said Rajath Kedilaya, CIO, Chumbak. “The IBM Cloud Infrastructure as a Service, with its unique combination of virtual and bare metal features, has helped us streamline our operations seamlessly.” “While evaluating the IT partner for our requirement, we considered Microsoft Azure and AWS as well. But in the process we realized that IBM Cloud offered the most cost effective solution and could be deployed and integrated seamlessly with our ERP infrastructure. Also, the bare metal feature is a unique offering that provides on-demand access to the right resources for the right workloads” he further added.“Today, enterprises require their IT infrastructure to enable them to enhance business performance, spur innovation and get better insights into complex supply chains and distributed development environment. Chumbak also required a holistic approach to manage their IT infrastructure. IBM not only proved to be the IT backbone of the organization but also reduced Chumbak’s overall IT services costs significantly” said Vivek Malhotra, Cloud Leader, IBM India/SA.IBM Cloud delivers fast, easy and automated access to public, private and hybrid cloud services to help clients digitally transform. IBM Cloud is a growing collection of services including analytics, mobile, networking, storage, Internet of Things and cognitive computing. With more than 40 global cloud data centers, IBM helps companies securely manage and gain insight into their data no matter where it resides.About ChumbakFor more information, please visit: http://www.chumbak.com/About IBMFor more information, please visit: http://www.ibm.com/cloud-computing/