ARMONK, N.Y.-  28 Jan 2016: IBM (NYSE: IBM) today announced its intent to acquire Resource/Ammirati -- a leading, US-based digital marketing and creative agency -- combining the companies’ strategic, creative and technology talents to address rising demand from businesses seeking to reinvent themselves for the digital economy and provide differentiated experiences to their customers. This is IBM’s first acquisition of a digital marketing creative agency and adds to IBM's global, leading design and digital experience capabilities. The acquisition of Resource/Ammirati supports IBM’s goal of helping clients digitally reinvent to create transformative brand experiences. Recognized for the groundbreaking technology and analytics capabilities of Watson, IBM has over 1,000 designers working with strategists, developers and consultants to combine the power of design and technology for clients.The deal is projected to close in the first quarter of 2016, subject to satisfaction of customary closing conditions and applicable regulatory reviews. Financial details were not disclosed.IBM Interactive Experience (IBM iX), the largest global digital agency[1], provides next-generation services dedicated to creating transformative experiences that propel clients ahead to market leadership. From strategy, creative and design to scalable digital, commerce, mobile and wearable platforms -- like consumer apps for the Apple Watch -- its team of specialists work side-by-side with clients including Air Canada, Boston Children’s Hospital, Citi and Staples across some 24 global IBM Studios to co-create innovations that drive results. As one of the top, digitally-led creative agencies in the US, Columbus, Ohio-based Resource/Ammirati will help IBM build on the success in North America and join over 10,000 IBM iX employees to support demand for its services in this fast-growing market. Resource/Ammirati’s 300+ associates across its offices in Columbus, Chicago and New York will continue to serve a diverse roster of clients spanning consumer goods, retail and financial services companies such as Birchbox, DSW, Nationwide, Nestlé, Newell Rubbermaid, North American Breweries, Shaw Industries, Sherwin Williams, Toys “R”Us and White Castle, among others.“Resource/Ammirati has built its own stellar brand and reputation on a long, distinguished record of advancing leading brands in every industry,” said Paul Papas, Global Leader, IBM Interactive Experience. “That portfolio of work and proven expertise is a perfect complement to the experience design capabilities of iX -- where we bring clients a distinct fusion of industry insight, design thinking and end-to-end digital transformation, from the experience of the individual to the core processes of the client's enterprise.”Founded in 1981 with Apple as its first client, Resource/Ammirati has been known for pioneering firsts in the digital marketing space -- from infamously “breaking the internet” in 1999 with the Victoria’s Secret Webcast Fashion Show during the Super Bowl, to being the first to tackle Facebook eCommerce capability for The Limited, Home Depot and P&G, to creating Sherwin-Williams’ ColorSnap Studio, an Ad Age “App of the Decade,” and the first-ever digital personalized circular, CVS’s myWeekly Ads. It also has a rich tradition of thought leadership, including the 2008 book The OPEN Brand that provided marketers a playbook for navigating the “always on,” technology-inspired and consumer-driven OPEN era. In 2014, Resource acquired advertising firm Ammirati, establishing its presence in New York and adding branding and design capabilities to round out the firm’s creative, digital and ecommerce offering for a growing base of clients.“We see in IBM iX a reflection of Resource/Ammirati’s own mission to use creativity, technology and collaboration to make anything possible for our clients,” said Resource/Ammirati Founder and Chairman Nancy Kramer. “Our associates and clients will all benefit from IBM’s global reach and resources, including access to additional strategic, design and development talent as well as powerful analytics and technology expertise in cloud, mobile development and systems integration. Additionally, IBM’s legacy of progressive, associate-centric practices is a perfect match for our company’s culture.”For more information on IBM Interactive Experience, visit www.ibm.com/ibmix.  For more information on Resource/Ammirati visit www.resourceammirati.com.Follow IBM Interactive Experience @ibminteractive on Twitter. [1] Ad Age Agency Report, 2014 & 2015