Cambridge, MA-  28 Jan 2016: IBM Watson Health (NYSE: IBM) today announced that the 2015/2016 Best in KLAS: Software & Services report recognized two of its newly acquired companies for population health and imaging solutions. IBM Company Phytel’s population health solution suite was named Best in KLAS for the population health category, and IBM Company Merge Healthcare was awarded three Best in KLAS Designations and its Hemodynamic solution was named KLAS Category Leader for the fifth consecutive year. Phytel, an IBM Company that empowers physician-led population health improvement, was named Best in KLAS in the Population Health Management category by the 2015/2016 Best in KLAS Awards: Software & Services report. This marks the second year Phytel has been recognized by KLAS as a top vendor in the population health space. IBM acquired Phytel last year.  “Provider organizations are seeking intuitive, enterprise solutions that are equipped with the ability to effectively help doctors and nurses manage chronic care and help keep individuals actively engaged in their care,” said Deborah DiSanzo, General Manager of IBM Watson Health. “Being recognized by KLAS and awarded the coveted Best in KLAS designation reaffirms that IBM Watson Health is playing a key role in meeting this industry need and shaping the future of population health.”Merge Healthcare, an IBM Company, and leading provider of clinical systems and innovations that seek to advance healthcare, was recognized by the report as a leader in imaging solutions, receiving four distinguished awards from KLAS. The 2015/2016 Best in KLAS: Software & Services report has named Merge Cardio™, Merge Unity RIS™ and Merge’s iConnect® Enterprise Archive Best in KLAS for the cardiology, radiology and VNA/image archive categories, respectively. In addition, Merge Hemo™ has been named the KLAS Category Leader in cardiology hemodynamics. This marks the fifth consecutive win for Merge Hemo, third consecutive win for Merge Cardio and second consecutive win for Merge Unity RIS.“The fact that four of Merge’s solutions were singled out for recognition by KLAS is rewarding and a direct reflection of our close client collaborations that enable us to build on our successes and continue exceeding expectations even as needs change, ” said Justin Dearborn, CEO of Merge Healthcare. “Being named a top solution year after year reaffirms that Merge is playing a key role in shaping the future of imaging management.”The 2015/2016 Best in KLAS: Software & Services report provides a high-level overview of performance ratings for vendors offering software, professional services and medical equipment to the healthcare industry. Phytel received an overall score of 87.2. Merge Cardio received an overall score of 76.9, Merge Unity RIS received an overall score of 89.3, Merge’s iConnect Enterprise Archive received an overall score of 85.3 and Merge Hemo received an overall score of 85.4.About KLASKLAS is a research and insights firm on a global mission to improve healthcare delivery by amplifying the provider's voice. Working with thousands of healthcare professionals and clinicians, KLAS gathers data and insights on software, services, and medical equipment to deliver timely reports, trends and statistical overviews. The research directly represents the provider voice and acts as a catalyst for improving vendor performance. Follow KLAS on Twitter at www.twitter.com/KLASresearch.About Merge Healthcare Merge, an IBM Company, is a leading provider of innovative enterprise imaging, interoperability and clinical systems that seek to advance healthcare. Merge’s enterprise and cloud-based technologies for image intensive specialties provide access using a standard internet browser or mobile device. Merge also provides clinical trials software with end-to-end study support in a single platform and other intelligent health data and analytics solutions. With solutions that have been used by providers for more than 25 years, Merge is helping to reduce costs and improve efficiencies, which enhances the quality of healthcare worldwide. For more information, visit merge.com and follow us on Twitter @MergeHealthcare. About PhytelPhytel, an IBM Company, provides physicians with technology to deliver timely, coordinated care to their patients. Phytel's SaaS-based registry uses evidence-based chronic and preventive care protocols to help clinicians identify and notify patients who may need care, while tracking compliance and measuring quality and financial results. For more information, please visit www.phytel.com. Follow us on Twitter and find us on Facebook.